README.md, before:

# Open Alternative to ChatGPT

<p align="center">
  <img src="docs/assets/icons/Square310x310Logo.png" style="width: 25%; height: auto;">
</p>

Supa is an open alternative to ChatGPT. It allows you to use the best AI models from different providers, keeps data private, and doesn't require a subscription.

![Supa screenshot](docs/assets/screenshot.png)

> 🚧 Work in progress towards v1.

## Getting Started

**Download Supa:**
- [Download for macOS](#) 
- [Download for Windows](#)

**For developers:** Want to build from source? Check out our [quick start guide](docs/dev/quick-start.md).

## Features

### Workspaces

Organize your conversations and assistants into separate workspaces

### Local first

You can use Supa without relying on Supa servers

### Tabs like in VSCode

Create and switch between tabs, and split windows

### Any AI

From OpenAI and Anthropic to Ollama and any OpenAI-compatible API; bring your own keys

### Many themes

Use different themes for your workspaces; from colorful to boring

### Assistants

Create your own assistants with their own prompts and models

### No subscriptions

Pay as you go, either for API costs from AI providers or the actual compute if you run models yourself.

## Related projects
Supa is built alongside several companion projects that enable its features:

- **AI inference** - [aiwrapper](https://github.com/mitkury/aiwrapper)
- **Info about AI models** - [aimodels](https://github.com/mitkury/aimodels)
- **Tiling tabs** - [ttabs](https://github.com/mitkury/ttabs)
- **Sync** - [reptree](https://github.com/mitkury/reptree)
- **AI context** - [airul](https://github.com/mitkury/airul)

All projects are maintained by Supa's author.

Commit message:

feat(branding): rename Supa to Sila throughout UI and documentation
- Update all user-facing text from "Supa" to "Sila"
- Change app titles, welcome messages, and setup instructions
- Update demo configurations and documentation
- Modify CLI tool messages and validation
- Update repository references and app identifiers
- Preserve internal package names and import paths as requested

README.md, after:

# Open Alternative to ChatGPT

<p align="center">
  <img src="docs/assets/icons/Square310x310Logo.png" style="width: 25%; height: auto;">
</p>

Sila is an open alternative to ChatGPT. It allows you to use the best AI models from different providers, keeps data private, and doesn't require a subscription.

![Sila screenshot](docs/assets/screenshot.png)

> 🚧 Work in progress towards v1.

## Getting Started

**Download Sila:**
- [Download for macOS](#) 
- [Download for Windows](#)

**For developers:** Want to build from source? Check out our [quick start guide](docs/dev/quick-start.md).

## Features

### Workspaces

Organize your conversations and assistants into separate workspaces

### Local first

You can use Sila without relying on Sila servers

### Tabs like in VSCode

Create and switch between tabs, and split windows

### Any AI

From OpenAI and Anthropic to Ollama and any OpenAI-compatible API; bring your own keys

### Many themes

Use different themes for your workspaces; from colorful to boring

### Assistants

Create your own assistants with their own prompts and models

### No subscriptions

Pay as you go, either for API costs from AI providers or the actual compute if you run models yourself.

## Related projects
Sila is built alongside several companion projects that enable its features:

- **AI inference** - [aiwrapper](https://github.com/mitkury/aiwrapper)
- **Info about AI models** - [aimodels](https://github.com/mitkury/aimodels)
- **Tiling tabs** - [ttabs](https://github.com/mitkury/ttabs)
- **Sync** - [reptree](https://github.com/mitkury/reptree)
- **AI context** - [airul](https://github.com/mitkury/airul)

All projects are maintained by Sila's author.
