packages/tests/README.md, before:

# Sila Tests

Vitest-based test suite for Sila core and desktop file persistence.

## Running

From the repo root:

- Install deps: `npm install`
- Run all tests: `npm test`
- Watch mode (tests pkg only): `npm -w packages/tests run test:watch`

### Running Tests by Category

You can now run tests by category using the following commands:

- **Spaces**: `npm run test:spaces` - Space creation, persistence, and secrets
- **Files**: `npm run test:files` - File storage, CAS, HEIC conversion, and file operations
- **Chat**: `npm run test:chat` - Chat app trees, messaging, and file attachments
- **Previews**: `npm run test:previews` - File preview system and simplified attachments
- **AI**: `npm run test:ai` - AI integration and image processing

### Test Organization

Tests are organized into categories with descriptive prefixes:

```
packages/tests/src/
├── spaces/
│   ├── spaces-space.test.ts
│   └── spaces-secrets.test.ts
├── files/
│   ├── files-files.test.ts
│   ├── files-real.test.ts
│   ├── files-store-integration.test.ts
│   └── files-heic-conversion.test.ts
├── chat/
│   ├── chat-app-tree.test.ts
│   ├── chat-files-targeting.test.ts
│   ├── chat-text-file-attachments.test.ts
│   ├── chat-text-file-attachments-integration.test.ts
│   └── chat-text-file-ai-integration.test.ts
├── previews/
│   ├── previews-core.test.ts
│   └── previews-svelte.test.ts
├── ai/
│   └── ai-image.test.ts
└── setup/
    ├── setup-browser.ts
    ├── setup-svelte.ts
    └── setup-node-file-system.ts
```

If your environment blocks postinstall scripts, you can install without them and still run tests:

- `npm install --ignore-scripts`
- `npm -w packages/tests run test`

## What's covered

- Space creation and FileSystem persistence (ops written to jsonl, structure files)
- Secrets encryption/decryption roundtrip
- Files CAS: write/read roundtrip and Files AppTree linking
- Chat attachments: saving images to CAS and storing file references in messages

## Local assets for file tests

To keep tests deterministic and offline, file tests read images from:

- `packages/tests/assets/images/`
- Supported formats: `.png`, `.jpg/.jpeg`, `.webp`, and `.b64` (base64 text file)

You can add real images (e.g., downloaded from Wikipedia) to this folder and commit them. Tests will automatically discover any supported files placed here.

Notes:
- `.b64` files should contain base64 of the raw bytes (no data URL prefix). For example, on macOS/Linux: `base64 -w 0 input.png > my-image.b64`
- For `.png/.jpg/.jpeg/.webp`, tests read raw bytes and infer MIME type from the file extension.

## Tips

- Run `npm -w packages/tests run test:watch` during development
- Use category-specific commands to focus on specific areas: `npm run test:spaces`
- If a new asset is very large, prefer a small thumbnail to keep the repo lean

Commit message:

dev: simplify tests README to show categories instead of listing all files

packages/tests/README.md, after:

# Sila Tests

Vitest-based test suite for Sila core and desktop file persistence.

## Running

From the repo root:

- Install deps: `npm install`
- Run all tests: `npm test`
- Watch mode (tests pkg only): `npm -w packages/tests run test:watch`

### Running Tests by Category

You can now run tests by category using the following commands:

- **Spaces**: `npm run test:spaces` - Space creation, persistence, and secrets
- **Files**: `npm run test:files` - File storage, CAS, HEIC conversion, and file operations
- **Chat**: `npm run test:chat` - Chat app trees, messaging, and file attachments
- **Previews**: `npm run test:previews` - File preview system and simplified attachments
- **AI**: `npm run test:ai` - AI integration and image processing

### Test Organization

Tests are organized into categories with descriptive prefixes:

- **spaces/** - Space creation, persistence, and secrets management
- **files/** - File storage, CAS, HEIC conversion, and file operations  
- **chat/** - Chat app trees, messaging, and file attachments
- **previews/** - File preview system and simplified attachments
- **ai/** - AI integration and image processing
- **setup/** - Test setup and configuration files

If your environment blocks postinstall scripts, you can install without them and still run tests:

- `npm install --ignore-scripts`
- `npm -w packages/tests run test`

## What's covered

- Space creation and FileSystem persistence (ops written to jsonl, structure files)
- Secrets encryption/decryption roundtrip
- Files CAS: write/read roundtrip and Files AppTree linking
- Chat attachments: saving images to CAS and storing file references in messages

## Local assets for file tests

To keep tests deterministic and offline, file tests read images from:

- `packages/tests/assets/images/`
- Supported formats: `.png`, `.jpg/.jpeg`, `.webp`, and `.b64` (base64 text file)

You can add real images (e.g., downloaded from Wikipedia) to this folder and commit them. Tests will automatically discover any supported files placed here.

Notes:
- `.b64` files should contain base64 of the raw bytes (no data URL prefix). For example, on macOS/Linux: `base64 -w 0 input.png > my-image.b64`
- For `.png/.jpg/.jpeg/.webp`, tests read raw bytes and infer MIME type from the file extension.

## Tips

- Run `npm -w packages/tests run test:watch` during development
- Use category-specific commands to focus on specific areas: `npm run test:spaces`
- If a new asset is very large, prefer a small thumbnail to keep the repo lean
